---
layout: page
title: "UCSD CSE231 – Advanced Compiler Design"
doodle: "/doodle.png"
---

# Advanced Compiler Design (CSE 231)


<a href="https://jpolitz.github.io">Joe Gibbs Politz</a> (Instructor)
<a href="https://yalhessi.github.io/">Yousef Alhessi</a> (TA)

## Course Summary

The main course project is building an in-browser, interactive compiler from
(typed) Python programs to WebAssembly.

This project will allow us to explore a number of interesting features of
compilation and build deployable, user-facing programming environments.

Weekly lectures will be a mix of practical tutorials on necessary tools and
techniques, discussions of compilers concepts that we can apply to our
projects, and review of solutions generated by the class.

We will also assign weekly readings from around the Web highlighting tools
and techniques we need, and research papers that explore the space of
compiler design.

## Grading

- 10% Weekly review quizzes
- 40% Three two-week programming assignments
- 50% One open-ended project (with milestones/parts, full rubric to come)

## Projects

The first **two** programming assignments will have **individual
submission**. However, I encourage you to talk about your approaches and
collaborate, you just must submit individually. There's a lot of technology
to learn in the course, so feel free to discuss liberally and share code
snippets as necessary. In the assignment descriptions, there will be a place
to give credit to other students you worked with, please use it!

The **third** programming assignment must be completed **and** submitted
entirely on your own. This is one of the major assessments for the course,
and you should treat it like a take-home exam.

These first three assignments are designed to get us all to a basic level of
functionality and understanding. Then, you will have significant choice in
the project you decide to work on, though generally we expect that projects
will be extensions of the running compiler we develop in the first part of
the course. Group work will be allowed (optionally) on the projects, with
details to come.

## Schedule

This spreadsheet lists the readings, lecture topics, due dates, and
assignments for the course.

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vSczAtF-Hr-0ddOuXc92TOsT5wS9Ey2Um_gA-lB0_rPHpPHkpUrYCkuP4icRd-ZfSTpMH6tYnIX2BEw/pubhtml?gid=0&amp;single=true&amp;widget=true&amp;headers=false" style="border: none; border-top: 1px solid grey; border-spacing: 2px" width="100%" height="800px"></iframe>

## Getting Help

Joe and Yousef have office hours where you can join a Zoom room and get a mix
of one-on-one and group help (depending on your question):

- Joe: Wednesday 2-3pm [https://ucsd.zoom.us/my/politz](https://ucsd.zoom.us/my/politz)
- Yousef: TBD

You can also post questions to the course message board, which you will get
an invite to along with the first lecture. If you need anything in the
meantime, you can email Joe at jpolitz@eng.ucsd.edu.
